Rule 10403: Board Meeting Accessibility and Public Participation | The University of Texas System

Skip to main content

Employee Resources

Search terms

Search icon

The University of Texas System

Toggle navigation

About

News

Institutions

Regents

Leadership

Offices

Home

Board of Regents

Regents' Rules and Regulations

Rule 10403: Board Meeting Accessibility and Public Participation

Details

10403

Series

10000: Board Governance

Date Approved

Dec 10th, 2004

Date Last Amended

Nov 21st, 2024

Office(s) Responsible for Rule

Office of the Board of Regents

1.  Title

Board Meeting Accessibility and Public Participation

2.  Rule and Regulation

Sec. 1  Compliance with Open Meetings Act.  Meetings of the Board shall be open to the public, unless otherwise determined by the Board, in accordance with law. Closed executive sessions may be convened as authorized by State law.

Sec. 2  Accessibility to Board Meetings.  People with disabilities interested in observing committee and/or Board meetings and requiring communication or other special accommodations should contact the Office of the Board of Regents.

Sec. 3  Request to Provide Public Testimony on an Agenda Item.  Members of the public are allowed to present written and oral testimony, for a reasonable amount of time as determined by the Chairman of the Board, on any topic listed on the agenda for a Committee or Board meeting. Testimony on topics not listed on the agenda will not be allowed. Members of the public seeking to present testimony shall provide their name and agenda topic they seek to address to the General Counsel to the Board of Regents at least 24 hours in advance of the meeting. If possible, any person who provides oral testimony before the Board shall provide their testimony in writing to the General Counsel to the Board in sufficient time for copies to be distributed to the Regents prior to the meeting. The Board shall consider the public testimony presented to the Board on an issue before taking a vote.

Sec. 4  Disruption of Meetings Prohibited.  The disruption of a meeting of the Board of Regents or its committees or any other meeting, procession or gathering sponsored by the Board is prohibited. A person is in violation of this provision if, with intent to prevent or disrupt a lawful meeting of the Board, its committees or any other meeting, procession, or gathering sponsored by the Board, he obstructs or interferes with the meeting, procession, or gathering by physical action or verbal utterance. If possible, the individual chairing the meeting, the General Counsel to the Board, or other authorized University official or a law enforcement officer should clearly identify the disruptive conduct or verbal utterance and request that the person responsible for the disruption desist. If the person responsible for the disruptive physical or verbal conduct fails to cease such conduct, the person shall be removed from the Board meeting or any meeting, procession, or gathering sponsored by the Board.

Sec. 5  Signs and Banners.  Persons may display a sign or banner at a Board or committee meeting by holding or carrying it by hand or otherwise attaching it to their person. No advance permission is required.

5.1  Any person holding or carrying a sign or banner shall exercise due care to avoid bumping, hitting, or injuring any other person.

5.2  Any person holding or carrying a sign or banner shall exercise due care to avoid blocking the view of any other person observing the Board or Committee meeting. This may mean that signs may be displayed only around the perimeter of a room or an audience.

Sec. 6  Report to Press on Actions of Board.  Reports on actions of the Board on matters of public interest will be given to the press as promptly as possible. These press reports shall be under the direction of the Chairman of the Board of Regents, the Chancellor, or their designated representatives.

3.  Definitions

None

4.  Relevant Federal and State Statutes

Texas Education Code Section 51.357 – Public Testimony at Certain Meetings of Governing Boards of General Academic Teaching Institutions

Texas Government Code , Chapter 551 – Open Meetings

Texas Penal Code Section 42.05(a) – Disrupting Meeting or Procession

5.  Relevant System Policies, Procedures, and Forms

Regents’ Rules and Regulations , Rule 10101 – Board Authority and Duties

Regents’ Rules and Regulations , Rule 10801 – Policy on Transparency, Accountability, and Access to Information

6.  System Administration Office(s) Responsible for Rule

Office of the Board of Regents

7.  Dates Approved or Amended

Regents’ Rules Revision History

UT System Links and Contact Information

Academic Institutions

UT Arlington

UT Austin

UT Dallas

UT El Paso

UT Permian Basin

UT Rio Grande Valley

UT San Antonio

Stephen F. Austin

UT Tyler

Health Institutions

UT Southwestern

UTMB Galveston

UTHealth Houston

UT MD Anderson

UT System

About

SmartBook

Office of the Chancellor

Board of Regents

Leadership

Offices

Directory

UT4U

Outlook Web Access

Info Center

Policy Library

Regents' Rules & Regulations

Reports to the State

Audit Reports

Privacy Statement

Linking Notice

Copyright

Accessibility

Open Records

Resources

Careers

Document Library

seekUT

UT System Dashboard

Contact UT System

State Links

State of Texas

Fraud Reporting

Texas Homeland Security

Texas Veterans Portal

Statewide Search

The University of Texas System

UT System on Twitter (Link opens in new window)

UT System on Facebook (Link opens in new window)

UT System on Instagram (Link opens in new window)

UT System on LinkedIn (Link opens in new window)

© 2026 The University of Texas System. 210 West 7th Street, Austin, Texas 78701-2982. (512) 499-4200

The University of Texas System

Menu

×

About

News

Institutions

Regents

Leadership

Offices

Employee Resources