Texas State Board of Education Completes K-12 Social Studies TEKS Revision, Adopts New Personal Financial Literacy Standards | State Board of Education

 

 

 

 

 

 Skip to main content
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
TEA

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
TEA Website

 

 

 
Contact TEA

 

 

 
Sign up for updates

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 
Search

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 
About

 

 

 
History of the SBOE 

 

 

 
SBOE Operating Rules

 

 

 
Texas Administrative Code – SBOE

 

 

 
SBOE Legislative Priorities

 

 

 
Charter Schools

 

 

 
Curriculum Standards

 

 

 
Instructional Materials Review and Approval

 

 

 
Local Classroom Reviews

 

 

 
Texas Permanent School Fund

 

 

 
 

 

 
Board Members & Committees

 

 

 
Board Members

 

 

 
Committees

 

 

 
Find your SBOE Member

 

 

 
SBOE Map

 

 

 
Become an SBOE Member

 

 

 
 

 

 
Meetings

 

 

 
Live and Archived Broadcasts

 

 

 
Public Testimony Registration

 

 

 
Meeting Agenda - Current

 

 

 
Meeting Agendas - Archived

 

 

 
Texas PSF Corp. Meetings

 

 

 
Meeting Dates

 

 

 
Meeting Minutes

 

 

 
Summary of Actions

 

 

 
 

 

 
TEKS

 

 

 
Social Studies and Literary List

 

 

 
 

 

 
News & Updates

 

 

 
Awards and Recognition 

 

 

 
News

 

 

 
SBOE Social Media Policy

 

 

 
 

 

 
Related Content

 

 

 
Ad Hoc Committees

 

 

 
Innovative Courses

 

 

 
Information Regarding Proclamations

 

 

 
Special Populations

 

 

 
Long-Range Plan

 

 

 
SBOE Rule Review Plan

 

 

 
Submit Comment on Proposed SBOE Rules

 

 

 
SBOE Informal Public Comment Process

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 
 
 

 

 
 

 

 
 

September 08, 2026

 
 

 Texas State Board of Education Completes K-12 Social Studies TEKS Revision, Adopts New Personal Financial Literacy Standards

 
 

AUSTIN, Texas — September 8, 2026 — On Friday, the Texas State Board of Education (SBOE) completed its revision of the Texas Essential Knowledge and Skills (TEKS) for social studies. Chairman Aaron Kinsey thanked the board for its work, which took more than a year to complete. Last week's adoption of the U.S. History, World History, World Geography and Government standards completes the board's work on K-12 social studies.

"These updated social studies TEKS represent Texas' commitment to rigorous learning, with a central emphasis on the foundations of Western Civilization and the values that shaped America's and Texas' founding. Texas students will graduate with a solid understanding of our history, our republican form of government and our exceptional place in the world," said Chairman Kinsey.

In addition to the social studies TEKS, the SBOE adopted new Personal Financial Literacy (PFL) standards. The new TEKS will teach students how to set goals, budget, save, invest, develop business plans and more.

"One of the vital aspects of our PFL standards is that students understand the financial impact on their economic future under capitalism compared to socialism and communism. There is no better way to teach a lesson than to make it personal, and financial outcomes vary greatly under these different economic models," said Chairman Kinsey.

These updated social studies TEKS bring Texas standards in line with state law, which, over the last several legislative sessions, has introduced new mandates to refocus education on Western Civilization and its values.

###

 
 

 

 

  Print

 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Facebook

 

 

 

X

 

 

 

Instagram

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 

 

State Board of Education

Phone
 (512) 463-9007

Fax
 (512) 936-4319

sboesupport@sboe.texas.gov

SBOE Agenda Preparation and Website:

Phone (512) 463-9007

 
 

 

 
 
SBOE Footer 1

 

 
 

 

 
Accessibility Policy

 

 

 
Compact with Texans

 

 

 
Contact SBOE

 

 

 
Linking Policy

 

 

 
Privacy Policy

 

 

 
Public Information Act

 

 

 

 

 
 
SBOE Footer 2

 

 
 

 

 
Reporting Fraud

 

 

 
State Board for Educator Certification

 

 

 
Texas.gov

 

 

 
Texas Homeland Security

 

 

 
Texas Veterans Portal

 

 

 
TRAIL

 

 

 

 

 
 
Siteimprove Code

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 

© 2024 
The State of Texas State Board of Education
. All Rights Reserved.