ORDINANCE NO. 20260423-029 
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CITY CODE TITLE 2 ( ADMINISTRATIONj TO ADD 
A NEW CHAPTER 2 - 19 SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGYj RELATING TO THE 
ADOPTION, ACQUISITION, DEPLOYMENT, USE, AND REVIEW OF 
SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY BY THE CITY OF AUSTIN. 
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF AUSTIN: 
PART 1 . Title 2 ( Administration ) ofthe City Code is amended to add a new Chapter 2 - 19 
(Surveillance Technology) to read: 
CHAPTER 2-19. SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY. 
ARTICLE 1. - GENERAL PROVISIONS 
§ 2-19-1 DEFINITIONS. 
In this chapter: 
(1) EXIGENT CIRCUMSTANCES means a single or multiple related events, 
incidents, or circumstances creating or involving imminent risk of serious injury, 
loss of life, significant property damage, destruction of evidence in a criminal 
case, or damage to the public welfare, that require the immediate use of 
surveillance technology or the information it provides to mitigate the risk. 
(2) PRIV ACY IMPACT ASSESSMENT means an assessment of the risks to civil 
liberties and privacy rights posed by a surveillance technology. 
(3) SENSITIVE PERSONAL INFORMATION means information specifically 
associated with, or capable of being associated with, an individual, including: 
(a) social security number, driver's license number, or government-issued 
identification number; 
(b) financial data, including account numbers and credit card numbers; 
(c) precise geolocation; 
(d) religious beliefs, ethnic origin, or trade union membership; 
(e) contents of emails and electronic text messages unless the City is the 
sender or an intended recipient; 
Page 1 of 14 
(f) information about a person's sex life, sexual orientation, or gender identity; 
or 
(g) any personal data collected from a known child, as "child" is defined in 16 
C.F.R. § 312.2 (Definitions). 
(4) SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY means any electronic device, system using 
an electronic device, software, or similar technology that is used, designed, or 
primarily intended to monitor, collect, retain, process, or share audio, electronic, 
visual, location, thermal, olfactory, biometric, neural, or similar information 
specifically associated with, or capable o f being associated with, an individual or 
group, including sensitive personal information. 
(a) Surveillance technology includes drones with cameras or monitoring 
capabilities, automated license plate readers, fixed or mobile surveillance 
cameras, cell-site simulators, international mobile subscriber identity 
trackers, global positioning system technology, radio frequency 
identification technology, biometric surveillance technology, facial 
recognition technology, and surveillance systems that aggregate or analyze 
data for the purpose of monitoring persons or locations in public spaces. 
(b) Surveillance technology does not include: 
(i) widely available and commonly used consumer electronics, 
including smartphones and digital recording devices that are used 
with the consent o f those being recorded; 
(ii) physical access control systems, including badge/keycard access 
locks and systems, password-access technology, metal detectors, and 
motion sensors without biometric functionality; 
(iii) standard business software and hardware such as word processors, 
spreadsheets, computers, copy machines, and printers; 
(iv) information technology protection tools and software, including 
firewalls, data backup infrastructure, and antivirus software; 
(v) medical equipment, devices, and systems used to diagnose, treat, or 
prevent disease or injury; 
(vi) City data repositories used in the ordinary course of City business, 
including case and records management systems, personnel records, 
Page 2 of 14 
systems for receiving and tracking customer service requests or 
complaints, information acquired voluntarily from an individual who 
was given an opportunity to decline to provide the information, that 
a City department requires to provide a City benefit or service, and 
where the information will not be shared by the City or used for any 
other purpose, City records that must be stored and kept pursuant to 
retention schedules or applicable law, and systems for searching and 
retrieving City data from City data repositories; 
(vii) systems and devices specifically used to monitor the safety and 
security o f City property and which do not surveil the public at 
large. Examples include systems for geolocating City vehicles, 
property, and equipment. Examples of surveillance technologies not 
covered by this exception include surveillance cameras in City parks 
or on City streets; 
(viii) publicly available databases and internet search tools; 
(ix) non-digital observation tools used for direct observation without 
recording capabilities, including binoculars, telescopes, and night-
vision goggles; 
(x) widely used and commercially available communication and 
financial transaction systems, including standard telephone systems, 
standard voicemail systems, and equipment and systems used to 
process financial transactions; 
(xi) technologies used solely for forensic investigation and identification 
or verification of lawfully collected evidence in connection with a 
criminal incident and which do not surveil the public at large. 
Examples include forensic laboratory and field equipment, criminal 
justice databases used exclusively for booking, criminal history 
record management, or post-incident forensic identification (e.g., 
fingerprint, DNA, or ballistics), evidence management systems, and 
advanced 3D scanning technologies for static post-incident crime 
scene documentation; 
(xii) interview room security and recording systems; 
(xiii) court-ordered monitoring, recording, or tracking systems; and 
Page 3 of 14 
(xiv) systems, devices, and cameras used for infrastructure and 
mechanical control, including cameras for traffic control and traffic 
signal timing that do not retain footage. 
(5) SURVEILLANCE USE POLICY means a written policy that governs the use of 
certain surveillance technologies by City departments. 
§ 2 - 19 - 2 PURPOSE . 
The purpose of this chapter is to govern the adoption, acquisition, deployment, use, and 
review of surveillance technology by City departments, with the goal of increasing 
transparency, promoting community participation, protecting civil liberties, and ensuring the 
responsible use of surveillance technology. 
ARTICLE 2. - REGULATION OF SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY. 
§ 2-19-3 COUNCIL APPROV AL REQUIRED. 
Except as otherwise permitted in this chapter, City departments must obtain approval of 
the city council before: 
(A) accepting funds for surveillance technology outside o f the annual budget process, 
including private, state, or federal grants, or donations; 
(B) acquiring new surveillance technology; 
(C) using new or existing surveillance technology, or the information it collects, for a 
purpose or in a manner not previously approved by the city council or otherwise 
required by law; or 
(D) entering into an agreement with a third-party entity outside o f the City to acquire, 
share, or use surveillance technology or the information it provides. 
§ 2-19-4 PRIV ACY IMPACT ASSESSMENT. 
(A) A City department must prepare a privacy impact assessment for each 
surveillance technology the City department seeks to acquire or use in a manner 
not previously approved by the city council. 
(B) A privacy impact assessment must be prepared and developed in consultation 
with the chief information security officer and the city attorney, or their 
respective designees. 
Page 4 of 14 
(C) A privacy impact assessment must determine whether the surveillance 
technology poses more than a minimal risk to civil liberties and privacy rights, 
and must include at a minimum an analysis of whether the surveillance 
technology: 
(1) allows the indiscriminate collection of data without a warrant, probable 
cause, or reasonable suspicion of criminal activity, or a criminal nexus 
where the data is capable o f being associated with individuals or groups 
engaged in legal behavior; 
(2) routinely transmits sensitive personal information through data networks 
subject to legal or illegal access by third parties, other than networks that 
are completely internal to the City; 
(3) can store sensitive personal information in a manner allowing for broad or 
unrestricted sharing of or access to the information with or by third parties 
outside of the criminal justice system; 
(4) can collect sensitive personal information without a warrant, probable 
cause, or reasonable suspicion of criminal activity or a criminal nexus, or 
where the technology allows for the creation o f data records associated 
with particular individuals or groups; 
(5) collects data in such a manner that it can be used by third parties to 
develop or expand products, services, or technology, including training of 
artificial intelligence, other than for the exclusive use by and ownership of 
the City; 
(6) can be directly controlled or accessed, or its data can be directly controlled 
or accessed, by third parties outside o f the criminal justice system; 
(7) collects data in such a manner that even i f anonymized or compiled, the 
data can be analyzed or reverse engineered to associate it with individuals 
or groups; 
(8) collects data in a manner that is disproportionately associated with a 
particular demographic, protected class, or the exercise of a 
constitutionally or statutorily protected right; 
(9) can collect sensitive personal information of individuals on their own 
private property; and 
Page 5 of 14 
(10) is known to be associated with frequent violations of law, policies, or 
guidelines in other jurisdictions, the private sector, or previously by the 
City. 
(D) The presence of any one or more o f the factors in Subsection (C) shall weigh 
strongly against a determination that the surveillance technology presents no or 
minimal risk to civil liberties and privacy rights. 
(E) The privacy impact assessment shall also analyze whether the benefits o f the 
technology can be achieved through an alternative means that pose a lower risk to 
civil liberties and/or have a lesser financial cost. 
(F) A City department must submit a privacy impact assessment to the city council 
no less than four weeks before the city council meeting at which the City 
department will seek council approval pursuant to Section 2-19-3 or at which the 
City department will seek approval o f the privacy impact assessment under 
Section 2-19-8. 
(G) A City department must post the privacy impact assessment on a publicly 
available City website on the same day it submits the privacy impact assessment 
to the city council. The city manager or designee may create a website for the 
purpose o f hosting privacy impact assessments. 
§ 2-19-5 SURVEILLANCE USE POLICY. 
(A) The city manager or designee must submit a proposed surveillance use policy to 
the city council for each surveillance technology that requires council approval 
under Section 2-19-3. 
(B) A surveillance use policy must be prepared and developed in consultation with 
the City department seeking approval o f the surveillance technology. 
(C) A surveillance use policy must contain, at a minimum, the following: 
(1) the specific purposes for the surveillance technology; 
(2) a description o f the surveillance technology and how it works; 
(3) provisions related to authorized and unauthorized use of the surveillance 
technology and data obtained with the surveillance technology, including: 
(a) an exclusive list of the authorized uses; 
(b) the rules and processes required before using the technology and the 
data obtained with the surveillance technology; 
Page 6 of 14 
(c) if applicable, the general location, or types of locations, where the 
technology may be deployed, unless revealing the locations would 
compromise criminal investigations; and 
(d) a description of the machine learning and/or artificial intelligence 
capabilities and features of the surveillance technology, whether use 
of the surveillance technology will provide data for any machine 
learning and/or artificial intelligence tools, and any guidelines or 
prohibitions relating to machine learning algorithms and/or artificial 
intelligence; 
(4) the information and data elements that the surveillance technology collects, 
including metadata; 
(5) the individuals and entities, including any City department, vendor, 
subcontractor, service provider, or other third party, who can access or use 
the collected information, and the rules and processes governing access or 
use, including whether data will be used by or integrated with artificial 
intelligence or machine learning algorithms; 
(6) safeguards that protect information from unauthorized access, including: 
(a) encryption; 
(b) access control; 
(c) anonymization of data; 
(d) differential privacy techniques; 
(e) prohibitions on attempting, directly or indirectly, to re-identify any 
person from anonymized or de-identified data; and 
(f) access oversight mechanisms; 
(7) the time period for which information collected by the surveillance 
technology will routinely be retained, the reason why the retention period 
is necessary to achieve the purposes o f the technology, the process by 
which the information is regularly deleted after that period lapses, and the 
conditions that must be met to retain information beyond that period; 
(8) i f and how collected information can be accessed by members of the 
public; 
Page 7 of 14 
(9) if and how non-City entities can access, disclose, or use the information, 
including: 
(a) any required justification and legal standards and requirements to 
access, disclose, or use the information; 
(b) any limitations on non-City entities' ability to disclose data, 
including to third-party service providers; and 
(c) any obligations imposed on, or agreements required by, the recipient 
of the information; 
(10) the training required for any individual authorized to use the surveillance 
technology or to access information collected by the surveillance 
technology, including whether there are or will be any training materials; 
and 
(11) the mechanisms to ensure that the surveillance use policy is followed, 
including, as applicable, a description of: 
(a) personnel responsible for oversight; 
(b) internal and external recordkeeping o f use or access to the 
technology or the information collected, including detailed logging 
of data accessing events; 
(c) technical measures to monitor for misuse; 
(d) any audit requirements, including whether vendors or other relevant 
third parties will be required to provide City representatives or 
independent auditors hired by the City the ability to access any 
records needed to ensure compliance with the surveillance use 
policy; 
(e) any independent person or entity, inside or outside o f the City, with 
oversight authority; and 
(f) sanctions for violations o f the surveillance use policy. 
(D) The city attorney or designee must review each surveillance use policy before it 
is submitted to the city council for approval. 
(E) The city manager or designee must submit a surveillance use policy to the city 
council no less than four weeks before the city council meeting at which the City 
department will seek council approval pursuant to Section 2-19-3. 
Page 8 of 14 
(F) The city manager or designee must post the surveillance use policy on a publicly 
available City website on the same day the city manager or designee submits the 
surveillance use policy to the city council. The city manager or designee may 
create a website for the purpose of hosting surveillance use policies. 
§ 2-19-6 CONTRACTS FOR SURVEILLANCE USE TECHNOLOGIES. 
(A) The city manager or designee must ensure that a City contract with a third party 
for acquisition or use of a surveillance technology must incorporate all applicable 
and relevant provisions of the council-approved surveillance use policy for that 
surveillance technology. 
(B) To the extent permitted by law, the responsible City department must submit 
proposed contracts for acquisition or use of a surveillance technology to the city 
council at least four weeks before the meeting at which the City department will 
seek council approval o f the contract. 
(C) The city manager must ensure that each City contract with a third party for 
acquisition or use of a surveillance technology includes one or more provisions 
that provide for penalties, including monetary damages, specific performance, 
and early termination, if the third party breaches contractual provisions 
incorporating the applicable surveillance use policy. 
§ 2-19-7 EXCEPTION: EXIGENT CIRCUMSTANCES. 
(A) Council approval under Section 2-19-3 and 2-19-5 is not required ifthe city 
manager or designee determines that exigent circumstances exist which require 
the immediate temporary acquisition or use of a surveillance technology to 
mitigate or address the exigent circumstances, provided that: 
(1) the city manager or designee provides written authorization for the 
temporary acquisition or use of the surveillance technology due to exigent 
circumstances; 
(2) within 60 days o f the use or acquisition o f the surveillance technology, 
whichever comes first, the city manager or designee reports and discloses 
to city council: 
(a) the written authorization; 
(b) the exigent circumstances that justified immediate acquisition or 
use o f the surveillance technology, and the specific facts on which 
that determination was based; 
Page 9 of 14 
(c) a general description of the data collected; and 
(d) as applicable, the identities o f any third parties with whom the data 
was shared; 
(3) the responsible City department ceases the use ofthe surveillance 
technology when the exigent circumstances end. 
(B) The city manager or designee may extend the use of a surveillance technology 
under this section for a definite period beyond 60 days if the city manager or 
designee certifies in writing to the city council that disclosing the acquisition or 
use o f the surveillance technology within 60 days would compromise the safety 
or integrity of an active criminal investigation. Such certification must: 
(1) specify the duration of the extension beyond 60 days; 
(2) be disclosed in the city manager's annual report to the city council 
following the conclusion of the exigent circumstances; 
(3) provide that the extension will not continue beyond the minimum time 
needed to ensure the safety and integrity of an active criminal 
investigation; and 
(4) affirm that the extension is not for a purpose or an investigation unrelated 
to the exigent circumstances that justified the initial exception. 
(C) This section shall not permit the acquisition or use of a surveillance technology 
for mere convenience to meet standard public safety policies or goals, including 
general crime reduction, traffic safety, or routine law enforcement activities. 
(D) The city council must approve any continued use of the surveillance technology, 
as required by Sections 2-19-3 through 2-19-5, after the exigent circumstances 
end. 
§ 2-19-8 EXCEPTION: MINIMAL OR NO RISK TO CIVIL LIBERTIES AND 
PRIV ACY RIGHTS. 
Council approval under Section 2-19-3 is not required for a surveillance technology if 
the city council approves a privacy impact assessment for the surveillance technology and that 
privacy impact assessment determines that there is minimal or no risk to civil liberties and 
privacy rights posed by the surveillance technology. 
Page 10 of 14 
§ 2-19-9 PROHIBITED TECHNOLOGIES. 
The following surveillance technologies or data uses are not permitted: 
(A) facial recognition technology, except as consistent with City policy, or with any 
state or federal requirements; 
(B) artificial intelligence or machine learning tools, except as consistent with City 
policy; and 
(C) collection of data by any vendor or third party for marketing purposes, product 
development purposes, or any other use that is not necessary to fulfill the terms 
of a contract but is instead related to the vendor's or other third party's own 
interests. 
ARTICLE 3. ANNUAL REPORTING AND COMPLIANCE. 
§ 2-19-10 ANNUAL REPORTING. 
(A) The city manager or designee must submit and present an annual surveillance 
report to the city council at a public meeting within 120 days after the end of 
each fiscal year. The annual surveillance report must be made available to the 
public at least four weeks prior to the public meeting at which the report is 
presented. 
(B) The annual surveillance report must list each surveillance use policy the city 
council approved in the prior fiscal year. 
(C) For each surveillance technology approved in the prior fiscal year, the annual 
surveillance report must describe the surveillance technology and its intended 
use(s), and must include, at a minimum, the following information for the prior 
fiscal year: 
(1) a summary of material non-compliance issues, including violations of 
surveillance use policies that impacted privacy, civil liberties, or civil 
rights, and any action taken to address the issues; 
(2) a summary o f whether and, i f so, how often data acquired through the use 
of the surveillance technology was shared with outside entities (other than 
routine sharing through the criminal justice system), the name of any 
recipient entity, how often the data was shared, the type(s) of data 
disclosed, and the justification for the disclosure; 
Page 11 of 14 
(3) a summary ofwhether and how the surveillance technology was used, 
including whether it captured information regarding members of the public 
who were not suspected o f engaging in unlawful conduct; 
(4) the results of any non-privileged internal audits, City department self-
assessments, or assessments conducted by the city manager or designee; 
(5) total annual costs for the surveillance technology, including personnel and 
ongoing support and maintenance; and 
(6) an assessment of whether the surveillance technology has been effective at 
achieving its identified purpose and any obstacles identified to achieving 
that purpose. 
(D) The annual surveillance report shall also include a list of all instances in which 
the exigent circumstances exception under § 2-19-7 was utilized, including a 
summary of the technology used, the reasons for the exception being employed, 
and the length o f time that the technology was in use without council approval of 
a surveillance use policy. 
(E) The annual surveillance report shall identify any third-party entities who are not 
employed or retained by the city that contributed to the report and the 
information they contributed. 
§2-19-11 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED. 
(A) As applicable, City employees must comply with this chapter, including with any 
surveillance use policy adopted by the city council. Violations of this chapter by 
City employees may be considered a violation of applicable personnel policies. 
(B) Allegations of misconduct, including allegations that a City employee has 
violated a surveillance use policy, may be reported to the city manager, the 
department director for the employee accused o f misconduct, the city attorney, or 
any member of the city council. 
(C) Allegations of misconduct, including allegations that a City employee has 
violated a surveillance use policy, shall be handled and investigated in the same 
manner as other violations of applicable personnel policies. 
§ 2-19-12 RETALIATION PROHIBITED. 
Page 12 of 14 
(A) Retaliation against any City employee who makes a good faith complaint o f a 
violation of this chapter, including a violation of a surveillance use policy, is 
prohibited and shall be considered a violation of applicable personnel policies. 
(B) Allegations o f retaliation shall be handled and investigated in the same manner as 
other violations of applicable personnel policies. 
PART 2 . For existing surveillance technology acquired , adopted , deployed , or in use by 
any City department prior to the effective date o f this ordinance, the city manager or designee 
shall determine, after consultation with the chief information security officer and the city 
attorney, or their designees, whether the surveillance technology implicates civil liberties or 
privacy rights based on the criteria in City Code Section 2-19-4. 
(A) If such existing surveillance technology is determined to implicate civil liberties 
or privacy rights, each responsible City department must develop a surveillance 
use policy and obtain the approval of the city manager or designee of the 
surveillance use policy within 270 days of the effective date of this ordinance. 
(B) Except in exigent circumstances, if a responsible City department does not obtain 
city manager or designee approval of a surveillance use policy within those 270 
days, the department must suspend the use of such existing surveillance 
technology until the surveillance use policy is approved by the city manager or 
designee. 
(C) The city manager or designee shall not approve any proposed surveillance use 
policy not in compliance with applicable City Code and policies, including 
provisions enacted in this ordinance and other technology policies, including 
those concerning artificial intelligence and data security. 
(D) Any surveillance use policy approved by the city manager or designee under this 
Part 2 shall be made publicly available and included in the next annual 
surveillance report required under City Code Section 2-19-10. 
PART 3 . The provisions o f this ordinance are severable . If any provision of this ordinance 
or its applications to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect 
other provisions or applications o f this ordinance. 
Page 13 of 14 
PART 4 . This ordinance takes effect on May 4 , 2026 . 
PASSED AND APPROVED 
Kirk Watson 
Mayor 
APPROVED: ~(, ~A--~Vn® ATTEST: a*n~*Y-
Deborah Thorbas Erika I*ady 
City Attorney City Clerk 
Page 14 0 f 14 
April 23 ,2026 
6 