RESOLUTION NO. 20260812-017 
WHEREAS , Austin City Council intends to invest in improving public 
safety and security in City parks while ensuring the protection ofeivil liberties; 
NOW, THEREFORE, 
BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF AUSTIN: 
The City Manager is directed to develop a Parks Security Implementation 
Plan ("Implementation Plan") to improve public safety and security in City parks 
.. and recreation lands and facilities ( parks"). The Implementation Plan shall be 
informed by the expertise of professional City staff, including leadership of Austin 
Parks and Recreation and Austin Police, and shall use the July 2025 Parks and 
Recreation Department Security Audit Findings and Recommendations Report 
("Security Audit' ) as a foundational resource. The Implementation Plan shall 
establish, at a minimum: planned operational and capital improvements, priority 
locations, responsible parties, funding mechanisms, and implementation timelines. 
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: 
The City Manager is directed to acquire, deploy, and activate equipment to 
improve parks security and safety, per the Security Audit, Implementation Plan, or 
both, potentially including but not limited to, security cameras, non-recording 
drones as first responders, lighting, access control/fencing/gates, signage and 
wayfinding, and radio communication systems. 
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: 
Any surveillance technology sought must be acquired, deployed, and used in 
full compliance with all requirements of Ordinance No. 20260423-029, codified at 
City Code Chapter 2-19 and known as the ~' TRUST Act." The City Manager shall 
not consider acquisition of any camera or drone system that depends upon artificial 
Page 1 of 2 
intelligence to conduct surveillance or analysis. Parks with a history of violent 
crime shall be prioritized for the initial deployment of this equipment. 
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: 
The City Manager shall provide a progress update on the direction given in 
this Resolution to the Council Climate, Water, Environment, and Parks Committee 
no later than December 9,2026. 
ADOPTED: August 12 , 2026 ATTEST: 03rvi/14 
Erika BradyO 
City Clerk 
Page 2 of 2 