Trump's Transportation Secretary Sean P. Duffy Celebrates Launch of Federal eVTOL Pilot Program in Texas to Unlock the Future of Flight | Federal Aviation Administration Please enable JavaScript to use this site. --> Skip to main content USA Banner An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States. Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( Lock A locked padlock ) or https:// means you've safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. United States Department of Transportation United States Department of Transportation Secondary navigation About Jobs News Enter Search Term(s): Main navigation (Desktop) Aircraft Subnav: Aircraft 1 Aircraft Certification Aviation Safety Draft Documents Open for Comment Vintage & Experimental Aircraft Program Subnav: Aircraft 2 Aircraft Safety General Aviation & Recreational Aircraft Repair Stations Air Carrier & Air Agency Certification Air Traffic Subnav: Air Traffic 1 Air Traffic By The Numbers Air Traffic Environmental Review Community Engagement Flight Information International Aviation National Airspace System Subnav: Air Traffic 2 NextGen Obstruction Evaluation Air Traffic Plans and Publications Separation Standards Technology Weather Airports Subnav: Airports 1 Airport Cooperative Research Program Airport Improvement Program Airport Compliance Airport Rescue Grants Airport Safety Airport Certification CARES Act Grants Airport Coronavirus Response Grant Program Subnav: Airports 2 Engineering, Design, & Construction Environmental Programs News & Information Passenger Facility Charge (PFC) Program Planning & Capacity Resources Regions Runway Safety Airport Safety Information Video Series Pilots & Airmen Subnav: Airmen 1 Find an Aviation Medical Examiner Become a Pilot International Flight Pilot Certificates & Records Medical Certification FAA Safety Team Subnav: Airmen 2 Mechanics Repairmen Designees Airmen Certification Training & Testing From the Flight Deck Data & Research Subnav: Data & Research 1 Accident & Incident Data Aviation Forecasts Aviation Data & Statistics Commercial Space Data Economic Impact Subnav: Data & Research 2 Funding & Grant Data Passengers & Cargo Research Safety Technical Library Regulations Subnav: Regulations 1 Advisory Circulars Airworthiness Directives FAA Regulations Forms Handbooks & Manuals Orders & Notices Subnav: Regulations 2 Pilot Records Database Policy & Guidance Rulemaking Temporary Flight Restrictions Notices to Airmen (NOTAM) Space Subnav: Space 1 About the Office of Commercial Space Transportation Careers Licenses, Permits & Approvals Resources & Additional Information Legislation & Policies, Regulations & Guidance Environmental Spaceports Subnav: Space 2 Airspace Integration Stakeholder Engagement Compliance, Enforcement & Mishap Commercial Human Space Flight Drones Subnav: Drones 1 Advanced Air Mobility Advanced Operations Certificated Remote Pilots including Commercial Operators Contact Us Critical Infrastructure & Public Venues Drone Events Educational Users UAS en Espanol Subnav: Drones 2 Getting Started Public Safety and Government Programs, Partnerships & Opportunities Recreational Flyers & Modeler Community-Based Organizations Resources & Other Topics Research & Development Menu Main navigation (Desktop) Main navigation (Mobile) Aircraft Subnav: Aircraft 1 Aircraft Certification Aviation Safety Draft Documents Open for Comment Vintage & Experimental Aircraft Program Subnav: Aircraft 2 Aircraft Safety General Aviation & Recreational Aircraft Repair Stations Air Carrier & Air Agency Certification Air Traffic Subnav: Air Traffic 1 Air Traffic By The Numbers Air Traffic Environmental Review Community Engagement Flight Information International Aviation National Airspace System Subnav: Air Traffic 2 NextGen Obstruction Evaluation Air Traffic Plans and Publications Separation Standards Technology Weather Airports Subnav: Airports 1 Airport Cooperative Research Program Airport Improvement Program Airport Compliance Airport Rescue Grants Airport Safety Airport Certification CARES Act Grants Airport Coronavirus Response Grant Program Subnav: Airports 2 Engineering, Design, & Construction Environmental Programs News & Information Passenger Facility Charge (PFC) Program Planning & Capacity Resources Regions Runway Safety Airport Safety Information Video Series Pilots & Airmen Subnav: Airmen 1 Find an Aviation Medical Examiner Become a Pilot International Flight Pilot Certificates & Records Medical Certification FAA Safety Team Subnav: Airmen 2 Mechanics Repairmen Designees Airmen Certification Training & Testing From the Flight Deck Data & Research Subnav: Data & Research 1 Accident & Incident Data Aviation Forecasts Aviation Data & Statistics Commercial Space Data Economic Impact Subnav: Data & Research 2 Funding & Grant Data Passengers & Cargo Research Safety Technical Library Regulations Subnav: Regulations 1 Advisory Circulars Airworthiness Directives FAA Regulations Forms Handbooks & Manuals Orders & Notices Subnav: Regulations 2 Pilot Records Database Policy & Guidance Rulemaking Temporary Flight Restrictions Notices to Airmen (NOTAM) Space Subnav: Space 1 About the Office of Commercial Space Transportation Careers Licenses, Permits & Approvals Resources & Additional Information Legislation & Policies, Regulations & Guidance Environmental Spaceports Subnav: Space 2 Airspace Integration Stakeholder Engagement Compliance, Enforcement & Mishap Commercial Human Space Flight Drones Subnav: Drones 1 Advanced Air Mobility Advanced Operations Certificated Remote Pilots including Commercial Operators Contact Us Critical Infrastructure & Public Venues Drone Events Educational Users UAS en Espanol Subnav: Drones 2 Getting Started Public Safety and Government Programs, Partnerships & Opportunities Recreational Flyers & Modeler Community-Based Organizations Resources & Other Topics Research & Development Menu Main navigation (Mobile) Home Newsroom In This Section Newsroom Press Releases Statements General Statements Accidents/Incidents Fact Sheets Speeches Current Officials Former Officials Testimony Current Officials Former Officials Cleared for Takeoff Blog Daily Air Traffic Report Flight Delay Information FAA Safety Briefing Magazine Current Issue FAA Safety Briefing Archive Fly Safe Fact Sheets Subscribe to FAA News Contact Us Federal Aviation Administration Press Office 800 Independence Avenue, SW Washington , DC 20591 United States Email: pressoffice@faa.gov Subscribe to FAA News Trump's Transportation Secretary Sean P. Duffy Celebrates Launch of Federal eVTOL Pilot Program in Texas to Unlock the Future of Flight Thursday, September 10, 2026 FORT WORTH, TX — U.S. Transportation Secretary Sean P. Duffy was in Texas today to celebrate the state's first demonstration of its next-generation aircraft under USDOT's Advanced Air Mobility Integration Pilot Program (eIPP) –making Texas the sixth location to launch under the Department's initiative. Under Secretary Duffy, USDOT has created one of the nation's largest real-world environments for testing electric vertical takeoff and landing aircraft (eVTOLs), air taxis, and autonomous planes. The first-of-its-kind testing initiative has the potential to create jobs, connect communities, and strengthen American leadership in aviation. Data from the pilot projects will be used by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to develop new regulations that safely enable this futuristic technology at scale. Federal officials, industry stakeholders and state leaders gathered to watch demonstrations of BETA Technologies' ALIA electric aircraft and Joby Aviation's S4 eVTOL "Under President Trump, we are unlocking the future of flight and empowering innovators to build and test these exciting aircraft here in the U.S.," said U.S. Transportation Secretary Sean P. Duffy . "Today marks another critical step in our work to reshape how people and products move faster and more efficiently." The demonstrations at Perot Field Fort Worth Alliance Airport (AFW) were the first in Texas sponsored under eIPP, which partnered BETA, Joby, and the Texas Department of Transportation (TxDOT) to develop regional air taxi flights connecting Dallas, Austin, San Antonio, and eventually Houston. On Saturday, Joby's aircraft will fly a roundtrip flight from AFW to Dallas Fort Worth International Airport (DFW) to test flight operations between major airports. TxDOT and other eIPP participants are planning additional test flights through the rest of the year. "Advanced Air Mobility vehicles are the future of aviation and these demonstrations in Texas are critical to getting us there," said FAA Administrator Bryan Bedford . "The FAA is leveraging data from test flights in Texas and across the country to ensure these new aircraft integrate safely into the airspace." "In Texas, we don't wait for the future to arrive, we build it. The Lone Star State is pushing the boundaries by testing the next generation of aircraft through Project Nexus. I want to thank President Trump and Secretary Duffy for their leadership and decisive action," said Senator and Chairman of the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation Ted Cruz (R-Texas) . "These technologies will connect communities, expand access to jobs and services, and strengthen supply chains. What starts in Texas will help shape the future of aviation throughout the entire country." "We're proud to lead the way in transportation innovation as we look to find new ways to connect the people of Texas," said TxDOT Executive Director Marc Williams . "Project Nexus is a first-of-its-kind opportunity to gather real-world data, improve safety and build a framework for how electric aircraft could one day connect people, goods and communities across the state." "We began pursuing our vision at Joby in 2009. After thousands of hours of flight testing, and with the eIPP program supporting us, we're now ready for our industry to take off," said Joby Aviation Founder and CEO JoeBen Bevirt . "We're grateful to the White House and Department of Transportation for bringing government, industry and communities together as we make electric vertical flight a reality. We're proud to be demonstrating the future of flight here in Texas and bringing American innovation to communities across our nation." "eIPP is about putting these aircraft to work and learning from real operations," said BETA Technologies Founder and CEO Kyle Clark . "In Texas, we are working with our partners to move cargo and medical supplies, support disaster response and offshore operations, and understand what it takes to make these missions work at scale. The best way to build this industry is to get out there and fly. Programs like this are how we prove the technology, build the infrastructure around it, and make sure the U.S. continues to lead in aviation." Additional Information: In March, Secretary Duffy unveiled the eIPP program to begin testing advanced air mobility vehicles and their real-world applications. The eight selected projects span 26 states and partner with leading aircraft manufacturers, operators, and state partners, including: Urban air taxi services Regional passenger transportation (including short Takeoff and Landing aircraft) Cargo and logistics networks Emergency medical response operations Autonomous flight technologies Offshore and energy-sector transportation The eIPP is a first-of-its-kind initiative outlined in President Trump's Unleashing Drone Dominance Executive Order . It creates one of the nation's largest real-world testing environments for next-generation aircraft with the potential to create jobs, connect communities, and strengthen American leadership in aviation. Together, these pilot projects will create one of the largest real-world testing environments for next generation aircraft in the world. In addition to offering the American people an exciting window into the future of aviation, data from the pilot projects will be used by the FAA to develop new regulations that safely enable this futuristic technology at scale. Last year, Secretary Duffy and the FAA launched the nation's first-ever advanced air mobility (AAM) strategy to unlock the future of flight. The Strategy and accompanying action plan outline 40 recommendations to safely and efficiently support AAM operations. U.S. Department of Transportation Federal Aviation Administration 800 Independence Avenue, SW Washington, DC 20591 866.835.5322 (866-TELL-FAA) Contact Us Get Important Info/Data Accident & Incident Data Airport Data & Information Portal (ADIP) Charting & Data Flight Delay Information Supplemental Type Certificates Type Certificate Data Sheets (TCDS) Review Documents Aircraft Handbooks & Manuals Airport Diagrams Aviation Handbooks & Manuals Examiner & Inspector FAA Guidance Performance Reports & Plans Moving FAA Forward Brand New Air Traffic Control System Advanced Air Mobility Air Traffic Controller Hiring Visit Other FAA Sites Airmen Inquiry Airmen Online Services N-Number Lookup FAA Safety Team Frequently Asked Questions Policies, Rights & Legal About DOT Budget and Performance Civil Rights FOIA Information Quality No FEAR Act Office of Inspector General Privacy Policy USA.gov Web Policies and Notices Web Standards DOT Facebook DOT Twitter DOT Instagram DOT LinkedIn FAA YouTube Cleared for Takeoff Blog